# October 22nd in history

- 1797
  - André-Jacques Garnerin, an inspector in the French army who encouraged the use of balloons for military purposes, made a balloon ascent in order to give his first exhibition of parachuting, when he jumped from a height of about 3,200 feet (1,000 metres).
- 1836
  - After helping defeat Mexico in the Texas Revolution, Sam Houston was inaugurated as the first president of the Republic of Texas.
- 1906
  - French artist Paul Cézanne, considered one of the greatest of the Post-Impressionists, died at the age of 67.
- 1910
  - In one of the most notorious criminal cases of the 20th century, American physician Hawley Harvey Crippen (widely known as Dr. Crippen) was found guilty of murdering his wife; he was executed in a British prison the following month.
- 1934
  - Infamous criminal Charles (“Pretty Boy”) Floyd was fatally shot in a field near East Liverpool, Ohio, by FBI agents.
- 1943
  - French actress Catherine Deneuve, who was noted for her archetypal Gallic beauty as well as for her roles in films by some of the world's greatest directors, was born.
- 1964
  - French philosopher and writer Jean-Paul Sartre was announced the winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature; however, he became the first person to decline the award.
- 2008
  - Chandrayaan-1, India's first lunar space probe, was launched, and it later found water in the Moon's atmosphere.
- 2010
  - WikiLeaks, a website founded by Julian Assange that functioned as a clearinghouse for classified or otherwise privileged information, released thousands of U.S. documents relating to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
