# October 31th in history

- 1632
  - Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer, whose paintings are among the most beloved and revered images in the history of art, was baptized.
- 1860
  - Juliette Gordon Low, founder of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, was born in Savannah, Georgia.
- 1864
  - Nevada became the 36th state of the United States.
- 1887
  - Soldier and statesman Chiang Kai-shek, head of the Nationalist government in China from 1928 to 1949 and subsequently head of the Chinese Nationalist government-in-exile on Taiwan, was born.
- 1922
  - Benito Mussolini became prime minister of Italy; he was the first of Europe's fascist dictators in the 20th century.
- 1926
  - Harry Houdini, the magician and escape artist, died of peritonitis stemming from a stomach injury.
- 1941
  - After nearly 15 years of work, the Mount Rushmore National Memorial in the Black Hills of South Dakota was completed; the colossal sculpture features the heads of Presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, and Abraham Lincoln.
- 1962
  - The American psychological thriller What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?, a late-career triumph for both Bette Davis and Joan Crawford, was released in American theatres.
- 1968
  - U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson ordered an end to American bombing in North Vietnam.
- 2008
  - American author and oral historian Studs Terkel, who chronicled the lives of Americans from the Great Depression to the early 21st century, died in Chicago.
- 2020
  - Scottish-born actor Sean Connery, who was perhaps best known for portraying superspy James Bond in a series of films, died at age 90.
